
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="adding_new_wikidata_properties">adding new Wikidata properties</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Conzept currently (2022) supports all these <a href="https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Database_reports/List_of_properties/all" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Database_reports/List_of_properties/all" rel="ugc nofollow noopener">Wikidata property classes</a>: <strong>WikibaseItem</strong> (1515), <strong>ExternalId</strong> (7089), <strong>Url</strong> (86), <strong>String</strong> (318) and <strong>Quantity</strong> (613).
</p>

<p>
Only part of the following Wikidata classes are currently used on Conzept:  <strong>CommonsMedia</strong> (73), <strong>GlobeCoordinate</strong> (11). These fields often require manual integration for their proper use in the Conzept UI.
</p>

<p>
As new fields are frequently added to Wikidata, Conzept has some <a href="https://github.com/waldenn/conzept/tree/master/app/explore2/tools" class="urlextern" target="_blank" title="https://github.com/waldenn/conzept/tree/master/app/explore2/tools" rel="ugc nofollow noopener">tooling</a> to easily collect these new properties and integrate them properly.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;adding new Wikidata properties&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;adding_new_wikidata_properties&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-727&quot;} -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="process">process</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
To add new Wikidata property fields to the Conzept fields, use the following process:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> First <strong>fetch all Wikidata properties</strong> by executing the following script (located in the “app/explore2/tools” directory). The output is a “wikidata_properties.json” file. <pre class="code">./wikidata_properties_fetch.sh</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <strong>Create the new Conzept fields</strong> by running the “json2fields” script (also located in the “tools” directory).</div>
<ul>
<li class="level2 node"><div class="li"> Notes:</div>
<ul>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> The command structure is: node json2fields.js “[PROPERTIES-FILE.json]” [PROPERTY-CLASS] &gt; /tmp/output.txt</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> You can run the script for each of the property-classes: WikibaseItem, ExternalId, Url, GlobeCoordinate, CommonsMedia, String, Quantity.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> The script will skip any Wikidata-fields which are already defined (by property number), so no duplicates are ever created).</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Example: <pre class="code">node json2fields.js &quot;wikidata_properties.json&quot; WikibaseItem &gt; /tmp/new_fields.txt</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1 node"><div class="li"> <strong>Include the content</strong> of “/tmp/new_fields.txt” file into the “conzept_fields”-variable of “src/data/fields.js”. </div>
<ul>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Note: With the Vim-editor this can be done as: “:r /tmp/new_fields.txt”</div>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <strong>Upgrade the Conzept version and rebuild</strong>: <pre class="code">sudo vi /etc/conzept/settings.conf</pre>
<pre class="code">npm run build</pre>
</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;process&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;process&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;728-&quot;} -->